docs/14.models/1.telegraph-bot.md, before:

---
title: 'TelegraphBot'
---

Bot informations are stored in database inside a `telegraph_bots` table and can be retrieved using `DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot` model or using a custom Bot model.

## Custom Bot Model

To customize on your own Bot model, make sure that your custom model extends the `DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot`, e.g. `App\Models\Bot`, it will looks like this:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot as BaseModel;

class Bot extends BaseModel
{
	protected $table = 'telegraph_bots';
}
```

You should specify the class name of your model in the `models.bot` key of the telegraph config file.

```php
'models' => [
    'bot' => App\Models\Bot::class,
],
```

## Available methods

### `url()`

retrieves the bot url

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->url();

// https://t.me/my-bot-name
```

### `info()`

retrieves the bot information from Telegraph APIs

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->info();


/*
id: xxxxx
is_bot: true
first_name: telegraph-test
username: my_test_bot
can_join_groups: true
can_read_all_group_messages: false
supports_inline_queries: false
*/
```

### `registerCommands()`

register commands in Telegram Bot in order to display them to the user when the "/" key is pressed

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->registerCommands([
    'command1' => 'command 1 description',
    'command2' => 'command 2 description'
])->send();
```

### `unregisterCommands()`

resets Telegram Bot registered commands

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->unregisterCommands()->send();
```

### `registerWebhook()`

register a webhook url

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->registerWebhook()->send();
```

you can use the method parameters to customize the webhook settings:

- `dropPendingUpdates`: drops pending updates from telegram
- `maxConnections`: maximum allowed simultaneous connections to the webhook (defaults to 40)
- `secretToken`: secret token to be sent in a `X-Telegram-Bot-Api-Secret-Token` header to verify the authenticity of the webhook

### `unregisterWebhook()`

unregister a webhook url

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->unregisterWebhook()->send();
```

### `getWebhookDebugInfo()`

retrieves webhook debug data

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->getWebhookDebugInfo()->send();
```

### `replyWebhook()`

replies to a webhook callback

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->replyWebhook($callbackQueryId, 'message received', $showAlert)->send();
```


### `updates()`

Retrieves the Bot message and callback query updates using [manual polling](webhooks/manual-polling)

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->updates()->each(function(TelegramUpdate $update){
    // ...
});
```

> [!WARNING]
> Manual updates polling is not available if a webhook is set up for the bot. Webhook should be remove first using its [unregisterWebhook](webhooks/deleting-webhooks) method

#### Long Polling

In production environment, a timeout (in seconds) should be declared, in order to allow long polling:

```php
$telegraphBot->updates(timeout: 60)->each(function(TelegramUpdate $update){
    // ...
});
```


### `store()`

Downloads a media file and stores it in the given path

```php
/** @var DefStudio\Telegraph\DTO\Photo $photo */

$telegraphBot->store($photo, Storage::path('bot/images'), 'The Photo.jpg');
```
> [!WARNING]
> There is an hard limit of 20BM for downloaded files sizes. This is a Telegram limitation for bots, sadly, there is no workaround available.
> refer the [docs](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#getfile) for more info.

### `getFileInfo()`

Retrieve file info from ID

```php
$telegraphBot->getFileInfo($fileId)->send();
```


### `answerInlineQuery()`

send back the results for an inline query

```php
 $telegraphBot->answerInlineQuery($inlineQuery->id(), [
    InlineQueryResultPhoto::make($logo->id."-light", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/light.jpg", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/light/thumb.jpg")
        ->caption('Light Logo'),
    InlineQueryResultPhoto::make($logo->id."-dark", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/dark.jpg", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/dark/thumb.jpg")
        ->caption('Light Logo'),
])->cache(seconds: 600)->send();
```


### `setBaseUrl()`

allows to override Telegram API url on a per-message basis:

```php
$telegraphBot->setBaseUrl('https://my-secret-server.dev');
```




> [!WARNING]
> Follow [installation](installation#set-up) instructions for creating the database tables

Commit message:

feat: docs for http proxy

docs/14.models/1.telegraph-bot.md, after:

---
title: 'TelegraphBot'
---

Bot informations are stored in database inside a `telegraph_bots` table and can be retrieved using `DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot` model or using a custom Bot model.

## Custom Bot Model

To customize on your own Bot model, make sure that your custom model extends the `DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot`, e.g. `App\Models\Bot`, it will looks like this:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot as BaseModel;

class Bot extends BaseModel
{
	protected $table = 'telegraph_bots';
}
```

You should specify the class name of your model in the `models.bot` key of the telegraph config file.

```php
'models' => [
    'bot' => App\Models\Bot::class,
],
```

## Available methods

### `url()`

retrieves the bot url

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->url();

// https://t.me/my-bot-name
```

### `info()`

retrieves the bot information from Telegraph APIs

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->info();


/*
id: xxxxx
is_bot: true
first_name: telegraph-test
username: my_test_bot
can_join_groups: true
can_read_all_group_messages: false
supports_inline_queries: false
*/
```

### `registerCommands()`

register commands in Telegram Bot in order to display them to the user when the "/" key is pressed

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->registerCommands([
    'command1' => 'command 1 description',
    'command2' => 'command 2 description'
])->send();
```

### `unregisterCommands()`

resets Telegram Bot registered commands

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->unregisterCommands()->send();
```

### `registerWebhook()`

register a webhook url

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->registerWebhook()->send();
```

you can use the method parameters to customize the webhook settings:

- `dropPendingUpdates`: drops pending updates from telegram
- `maxConnections`: maximum allowed simultaneous connections to the webhook (defaults to 40)
- `secretToken`: secret token to be sent in a `X-Telegram-Bot-Api-Secret-Token` header to verify the authenticity of the webhook

### `unregisterWebhook()`

unregister a webhook url

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->unregisterWebhook()->send();
```

### `getWebhookDebugInfo()`

retrieves webhook debug data

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->getWebhookDebugInfo()->send();
```

### `replyWebhook()`

replies to a webhook callback

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->replyWebhook($callbackQueryId, 'message received', $showAlert)->send();
```


### `updates()`

Retrieves the Bot message and callback query updates using [manual polling](webhooks/manual-polling)

```php
/** @var \DefStudio\Telegraph\Models\TelegraphBot $telegraphBot */

$telegraphBot->updates()->each(function(TelegramUpdate $update){
    // ...
});
```

> [!WARNING]
> Manual updates polling is not available if a webhook is set up for the bot. Webhook should be remove first using its [unregisterWebhook](webhooks/deleting-webhooks) method

#### Long Polling

In production environment, a timeout (in seconds) should be declared, in order to allow long polling:

```php
$telegraphBot->updates(timeout: 60)->each(function(TelegramUpdate $update){
    // ...
});
```


### `store()`

Downloads a media file and stores it in the given path

```php
/** @var DefStudio\Telegraph\DTO\Photo $photo */

$telegraphBot->store($photo, Storage::path('bot/images'), 'The Photo.jpg');
```
> [!WARNING]
> There is an hard limit of 20BM for downloaded files sizes. This is a Telegram limitation for bots, sadly, there is no workaround available.
> refer the [docs](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#getfile) for more info.

### `getFileInfo()`

Retrieve file info from ID

```php
$telegraphBot->getFileInfo($fileId)->send();
```


### `answerInlineQuery()`

send back the results for an inline query

```php
 $telegraphBot->answerInlineQuery($inlineQuery->id(), [
    InlineQueryResultPhoto::make($logo->id."-light", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/light.jpg", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/light/thumb.jpg")
        ->caption('Light Logo'),
    InlineQueryResultPhoto::make($logo->id."-dark", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/dark.jpg", "https://logofinder.dev/$logo->id/dark/thumb.jpg")
        ->caption('Light Logo'),
])->cache(seconds: 600)->send();
```


### `setBaseUrl()`

allows to override Telegram API url on a per-message basis:

```php
$telegraphBot->setBaseUrl('https://my-secret-server.dev');
```


## `setHttpProxy()`

allows to set an HTTP proxy for Telegram API requests on a per-message basis:

```php
$telegraphBot->setHttpProxy('http://user:password@host:port')->message('message through proxy')->send();
```


> [!WARNING]
> Follow [installation](installation#set-up) instructions for creating the database tables
