docs/12.features/9.dto.md, before:

---
title: 'Incoming Data'
---

Data obtained from manual polling or webhooks is available through a set of DTO, under the `DefStudio\Telegraph\DTO\` namespace:

## `TelegramUpdate`

contains incoming data (a message or a callback query)

- `->id()` incoming _update_id_
- `->message()` (optional) an instance of [`Message`](#message)
- `->callbackQuery()` (optional) an instance of [`CallbackQuery`](#callback-query)

## `Chat`

- `->id()` _chat_id_
- `->type()` the chat's type (private, group, supergroup or channel)
- `->title()` the chat's title



## `Message`

- `->id()` incoming _message_id_
- `->messageThreadId()` unique identifier of a message thread
- `->date()` a `CarbonInterface` holding the message sent date
- `->editDate()` a `CarbonInterface` holding the message last edit date
- `->text()` the message text
- `->protected()` a boolean flag that states the message is protected from forwarding and download
- `->from()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the message's sender
- `->forwardedFrom()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about a forwarded message's original sender
- `->chat()` (optional) an instance of [`Chat`](#chat) holding data about the chat to which the message belongs to
- `->keyboard()` (optional) an instance of [`DefStudio\Telegraph\Keyboard\Keyboard`](boards) holding the message inline keyboard
- `->replyToMessage()` (optional) an instance of the original [`Message`](#message) that the current message is replying
- `->photos()` (optional) a collection of [`Photo`](#photo) holding data about the contained image resolutions
- `->animation()` (optional) an instance of [`Photo`](#animation) holding data about the contained animation
- `->audio()` (optional) an instance of [`Audio`](#audio) holding data about the contained audio
- `->document()` (optional) an instance of [`Document`](#document) holding data about the contained document
- `->video()` (optional) an instance of [`Video`](#video) holding data about the contained video
- `->location()` (optional) an instance of [`Location`](#location) holding data about the contained location
- `->contact()` (optional) an instance of [`Contact`](#contact) holding data about the contained contact data
- `->voice()` (optional) an instance of [`Voice`](#voice) holding data about the contained voical message
- `->sticker()` (optional) an instance of [`Sticker`](#sticker) holding data about the contained sticker
- `->newChatMembers()` a collection of [`User`](#user) holding the list of users that joined the group/supergroup
- `->leftChatMember()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the user that left the group/supergroup
- `->webAppData()` (optional) incoming data from sendData method of telegram WebApp
- `->writeAccessAllowed()` (optional) an instance of [`WriteAccessAllowed`](#WriteAccessAllowed) holding data about the contained write access allowed data




## `CallbackQuery`

- `->id()` incoming _callback_query_id_
- `->from()` (optional) an instance of the [`User`](#user) that triggered the callback query
- `->message()` (optional) an instance of the [`Message`](#message) that triggered the callback query
- `->data()` an `Illuminate\Support\Collection` that holds the key/value pairs of the callback query data


## `User`

- `->id()` user ID
- `->isBot()` marks if the user is a bot or a real user
- `->firstName()` user's first name
- `->lastName()` user's last name
- `->userName()` user's username
- `->languageCode()` user's language code
- `->isPremium()` user's premium status

## `Audio`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->duration()` audio duration
- `->title()` (optional) audio title
- `->filename()` (optional) audio file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) audio MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) audio file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Animation`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->width()` animation width
- `->height()` animation height
- `->duration()` animation duration
- `->filename()` (optional) animation file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) animation MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) animation file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Document`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->filename()` (optional) document file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) document MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) document file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Photo`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->width()` photo width
- `->height()` photo height
- `->filesize()` (optional) photo file size in Bytes

## `Video`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->width()` video width
- `->height()` video height
- `->duration()` video duration
- `->filename()` (optional) video file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) video MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) video file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Location`

- `->latitude()` location latitude
- `->longitude()` location longitude
- `->accuracy()` (optional) location horizontal accuracy

## `Contact`

- `->phoneNumber()` contact's phone number
- `->firstName()` contact's first name
- `->lastName()` (optional) contact's last name
- `->userId()` (optional) contact's telegram user ID
- `->vcard()` (optional) contact's [vCard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VCard)

## `Voice`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->duration()` audio duration
- `->mimeType()` (optional) audio MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) audio file size in Bytes

## `Sticker`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->type()` sticker type (consult https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#stickers for available types)
- `->width()` sticker width
- `->height()` sticker height
- `->isAnimated()` true, if the sticker is animated
- `->isVideo()` true, if the sticker is a video sticker
- `->emoji()` 	(optional) emoji associated with the sticker
- `->filesize()` (optional) sticker file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `WriteAccessAllowed`

- `->fromRequest()` true, if the access was granted after the user accepted an explicit request from a Web App sent by the method [requestWriteAccess](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webapps#initializing-mini-apps)
- `->fromWebApp()` a helper method that returns true if the access was granted when the Web App was launched from a link
- `->webAppName()` Name of the Web App, if the access was granted when the Web App was launched from a link
- `->fromAttachmentMenu()` true, if the access was granted when the bot was added to the attachment or side menu
- `->isAllowed()` true, if the user granted the bot write access to their account


## `InlineQuery`

- `->id()` inline query _id_
- `->query()` the query typed by the user after the bot's name
- `->from()` an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the user that started the query
- `->offset()` offset of the results to be returned, can be controlled by the bot
- `->chat_type()` type of the chat, from which the inline query was sent. Can be either “sender” for a private chat with the inline query sender, “private”, “group”, “supergroup”, or “channel”. The chat type should be always known for requests sent from official clients and most third-party clients, unless the request was sent from a secret chat
- `->location()` (optional) an instance of [`Location`](#photo) containing sender location, only for bots that request user location.

## `InlineQueryResultGif`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Gif result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultPhoto`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Photo result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultContact`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Contact result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultArticle`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Article result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultMpeg4Gif`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Mpeg4Gif result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultVideo`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Video result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultAudio`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Audio result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultVoice`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Voice result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultDocument`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Document result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultLocation`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Location result returned to the user

Commit message:

Added `ReactionType` data type, fixed typing

docs/12.features/9.dto.md, after:

---
title: 'Incoming Data'
---

Data obtained from manual polling or webhooks is available through a set of DTO, under the `DefStudio\Telegraph\DTO\` namespace:

## `TelegramUpdate`

contains incoming data (a message or a callback query)

- `->id()` incoming _update_id_
- `->message()` (optional) an instance of [`Message`](#message)
- `->messageReaction()` (optional) an instance of [`Reaction`](#reaction)
- `->callbackQuery()` (optional) an instance of [`CallbackQuery`](#callback-query)

## `Chat`

- `->id()` _chat_id_
- `->type()` the chat's type (private, group, supergroup or channel)
- `->title()` the chat's title



## `Message`

- `->id()` incoming _message_id_
- `->messageThreadId()` unique identifier of a message thread
- `->date()` a `CarbonInterface` holding the message sent date
- `->editDate()` a `CarbonInterface` holding the message last edit date
- `->text()` the message text
- `->protected()` a boolean flag that states the message is protected from forwarding and download
- `->from()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the message's sender
- `->forwardedFrom()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about a forwarded message's original sender
- `->chat()` (optional) an instance of [`Chat`](#chat) holding data about the chat to which the message belongs to
- `->keyboard()` (optional) an instance of [`DefStudio\Telegraph\Keyboard\Keyboard`](boards) holding the message inline keyboard
- `->replyToMessage()` (optional) an instance of the original [`Message`](#message) that the current message is replying
- `->photos()` (optional) a collection of [`Photo`](#photo) holding data about the contained image resolutions
- `->animation()` (optional) an instance of [`Photo`](#animation) holding data about the contained animation
- `->audio()` (optional) an instance of [`Audio`](#audio) holding data about the contained audio
- `->document()` (optional) an instance of [`Document`](#document) holding data about the contained document
- `->video()` (optional) an instance of [`Video`](#video) holding data about the contained video
- `->location()` (optional) an instance of [`Location`](#location) holding data about the contained location
- `->contact()` (optional) an instance of [`Contact`](#contact) holding data about the contained contact data
- `->voice()` (optional) an instance of [`Voice`](#voice) holding data about the contained voical message
- `->sticker()` (optional) an instance of [`Sticker`](#sticker) holding data about the contained sticker
- `->newChatMembers()` a collection of [`User`](#user) holding the list of users that joined the group/supergroup
- `->leftChatMember()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the user that left the group/supergroup
- `->webAppData()` (optional) incoming data from sendData method of telegram WebApp
- `->writeAccessAllowed()` (optional) an instance of [`WriteAccessAllowed`](#WriteAccessAllowed) holding data about the contained write access allowed data




## `CallbackQuery`

- `->id()` incoming _callback_query_id_
- `->from()` (optional) an instance of the [`User`](#user) that triggered the callback query
- `->message()` (optional) an instance of the [`Message`](#message) that triggered the callback query
- `->data()` an `Illuminate\Support\Collection` that holds the key/value pairs of the callback query data

## `Reaction`

- `->id()` incoming _message_id_
- `->chat()` an instance of [`Chat`](#chat) holding data about the chat to which the message belongs to
- `->actorChat()` (optional) an instance of [`Chat`](#chat) holding data about the chat to which the chat on behalf of which the reaction was changed, if the user is anonymous
- `->from()` (optional) an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the message's sender
- `->oldReaction()` a collection of [`ReactionType`](#reactiontype) holding data about the contained reaction type resolutions
- `->newReaction()` a collection of [`ReactionType`](#reactiontype) holding data about the contained reaction type resolutions
- `->date()` a `CarbonInterface` holding the message sent 

## `ReactionType`

- `->type()` type of the reaction
- `->emoji()` reaction emoji
- `->customEmojiId()` (optional) custom emoji identifier


## `User`

- `->id()` user ID
- `->isBot()` marks if the user is a bot or a real user
- `->firstName()` user's first name
- `->lastName()` user's last name
- `->userName()` user's username
- `->languageCode()` user's language code
- `->isPremium()` user's premium status

## `Audio`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->duration()` audio duration
- `->title()` (optional) audio title
- `->filename()` (optional) audio file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) audio MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) audio file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Animation`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->width()` animation width
- `->height()` animation height
- `->duration()` animation duration
- `->filename()` (optional) animation file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) animation MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) animation file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Document`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->filename()` (optional) document file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) document MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) document file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Photo`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->width()` photo width
- `->height()` photo height
- `->filesize()` (optional) photo file size in Bytes

## `Video`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->width()` video width
- `->height()` video height
- `->duration()` video duration
- `->filename()` (optional) video file name
- `->mimeType()` (optional) video MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) video file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `Location`

- `->latitude()` location latitude
- `->longitude()` location longitude
- `->accuracy()` (optional) location horizontal accuracy

## `Contact`

- `->phoneNumber()` contact's phone number
- `->firstName()` contact's first name
- `->lastName()` (optional) contact's last name
- `->userId()` (optional) contact's telegram user ID
- `->vcard()` (optional) contact's [vCard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VCard)

## `Voice`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->duration()` audio duration
- `->mimeType()` (optional) audio MIME type
- `->filesize()` (optional) audio file size in Bytes

## `Sticker`

- `->id()` file ID
- `->type()` sticker type (consult https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#stickers for available types)
- `->width()` sticker width
- `->height()` sticker height
- `->isAnimated()` true, if the sticker is animated
- `->isVideo()` true, if the sticker is a video sticker
- `->emoji()` 	(optional) emoji associated with the sticker
- `->filesize()` (optional) sticker file size in Bytes
- `->thumbnail()` (optional) an instance of the [`Photo`](#photo) that holds data about the thumbnail

## `WriteAccessAllowed`

- `->fromRequest()` true, if the access was granted after the user accepted an explicit request from a Web App sent by the method [requestWriteAccess](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webapps#initializing-mini-apps)
- `->fromWebApp()` a helper method that returns true if the access was granted when the Web App was launched from a link
- `->webAppName()` Name of the Web App, if the access was granted when the Web App was launched from a link
- `->fromAttachmentMenu()` true, if the access was granted when the bot was added to the attachment or side menu
- `->isAllowed()` true, if the user granted the bot write access to their account


## `InlineQuery`

- `->id()` inline query _id_
- `->query()` the query typed by the user after the bot's name
- `->from()` an instance of [`User`](#user) holding data about the user that started the query
- `->offset()` offset of the results to be returned, can be controlled by the bot
- `->chat_type()` type of the chat, from which the inline query was sent. Can be either “sender” for a private chat with the inline query sender, “private”, “group”, “supergroup”, or “channel”. The chat type should be always known for requests sent from official clients and most third-party clients, unless the request was sent from a secret chat
- `->location()` (optional) an instance of [`Location`](#photo) containing sender location, only for bots that request user location.

## `InlineQueryResultGif`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Gif result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultPhoto`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Photo result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultContact`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Contact result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultArticle`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Article result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultMpeg4Gif`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Mpeg4Gif result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultVideo`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Video result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultAudio`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Audio result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultVoice`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Voice result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultDocument`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Document result returned to the user

## `InlineQueryResultLocation`

This is a DTO for outgoing data, wraps info about the Location result returned to the user
